# Seismic-Bumps-Forecasting

Mining activity is always connected with the occurrence of dangers which are commonly called mining hazards. A special case of such threat is a seismic hazard which frequently occurs in many underground mines. Seismic hazard is the hardest detectable and predictable of natural hazards and in this respect, it is comparable to an earthquake. More and more advanced seismic and seismoacoustic monitoring systems allow a better understanding rock mass processes and definition of seismic hazard prediction methods. Complexity of seismic processes and big disproportion between the number of low-energy seismic events and the number of high-energy phenomena (e.g. > 10^4J) causes the statistical techniques to be insufficient to predict seismic hazard. Therefore, it is essential to search for new opportunities of better hazard prediction, also using machine learning methods. In the data set each row contains a summary statement about seismic activity in the rock mass within one shift (8 hours). The data describes the problem of high energy (higher than 10^4 J) seismic bumps forecasting in a coal mine. If decision attribute has the value 1, then in the next shift any seismic bump with an energy higher than 10^4 J was registered. That task of hazards prediction bases on the relationship between the energy of recorded tremors and seismoacoustic activity with the possibility of rockburst occurrence.  With the information about the possibility of hazardous situation occurrence, an appropriate supervision service can reduce a risk of rockburst (e.g. by distressing shooting) or withdraw workers from the threatened area. Good prediction of increased seismic activity is therefore a matter of great practical importance.
